[Music]
are you worried about giving your
fingerprints when you get a new passport
for example this procedure gives your
unique info to the authorities that's
true but did you know there are many
other parts of your body they can give
your identity away as surely as your
fingertips well those of you in the
witness protection program will really
want to watch this and the rest of you
can also check it out number one Tong
you expected me to tell you about the
eyes first didn't you well surprise
surprise your tongue deserves this honor
perhaps even more than anything else
you see this organ has its own texture
just like your fingertips and the
patterns on it are yours and yours alone
but that's not the end of it whatever
you touch with your tongue retains a
small amount of your biological and
genetic material also known as saliva
you've seen how police and movies take
empty glasses left by suspects for an
evaluation
well that's because their saliva is
probably still there and they can learn
a lot from that stuff so be careful what
you lick number two teeth on the subject
of your mouth there's another part or
rather parts of it that's unique you
might have heard that the last resort
when a person is unidentifiable is their
teeth that's not only because they have
your DNA a caste model can be made that
if compared with any other person in the
world will be different from their teeth
pattern basically this method of
identification is as precise and
reliable as fingerprinting on the other
hand it has a rather serious flaw if you
wear braces for example your dental
pattern will change obviously same goes
for if you lose one or more of your
teeth for whatever reason I'm not asking
but still your teeth are indeed unique
for you even though there are ways to
change them and any way any body part
can be changed nowadays so there
[Music]
number three irises finally you can call
me Captain Obvious
yes irises are inevitable on this list
because they're so unique even your left
one is different from your right one
your eyes are a paired organ granted but
irises just don't care they develop as
they please in fact their muscles that
control the width of your pupils and
adjust them to light their unique
texture appears thanks to opening and
closing of your eyes but not as an adult
otherwise they would change with age and
that doesn't happen what does happen is
fetal development well you were still in
your mom's belly you opened and shut
your tiny little eyes forming those
swirls and furrows you can see in the
irises so you can say that you shape the
texture of your eyes on your own number
four ears have you heard the idiom about
walls that have ears well if they're
really mad you could have found out
their names hey Sean hearing me well
enough are you anyway the little gullies
and Hills of the inside of your ears are
nowhere else to be found you can be sure
that no one has the same shape of ears
as you scientists from the UK have even
developed a method of identifying a
person by measuring the reflection of
light off the curves inside the ears I
wonder if it's like a shadow play or
something whatever the case it seems to
be a pretty handy discovery because
Yahoo one of the biggest software
developers in the world is now working
on an ear scanner for smartphones you
won't need to press your finger to a
special sensor anymore to make a call
just hold your phone to your ear number
five parry ocular region now I've
already mentioned your eyes but irises
aren't the only thing that can
distinguish you from other people
throughout the years your parry ocular
region is the area just around the eyes
that includes the bridge of your nose
and your eyebrows scientists say this is
a very reliable way to identify someone
even without sophisticated equipment not
only the eyes can serve as our
biomedical ID but
zone immediately around them too this is
especially true because unlike other
parts of our face the peri ocular region
pretty much doesn't age there are little
to no wrinkles appearing in that part
and the skin remains taut there
if only that could be true about the
whole face number six toe prints well
what did you think if your fingerprints
are unique
why wouldn't toe prints be so your toes
are just like fingers except they're on
your feet and they also have those
swirling patterns on their soft parts
some scientists even think that toe
printing is a better way to collect
biometric data about an individual
because toe patterns are less likely to
be erased after all you always use your
bare hands in everyday life while your
feet are normally covered with some kind
of footwear number seven lip patterns
once again your mouth gives you away
those tiny Criss crosses on your lips
act like the patterns on your fingers
and toes now you know actually lip
prints have always been used in the US
courts to prove guilt the main drawback
of this method is that criminals don't
really tend to kiss everything they see
but if they're careless enough to say
drink from a glass and not wash it
afterwards then they're as good as
busted number eight retina of the eye in
sci-fi and action movies you've probably
seen retinal scanners these things do
exist because your retina is indeed
unique in fact it's an exact copy of
your whole nervous system and it's used
to diagnose various diseases and
conditions from diabetes to brain health
deterioration
what's more animals too can be
identified with the help of their
retinas so if you've lost your pup also
attach an optometrist report to the lost
pet poster just kidding
number nine cent yeah I know it's not a
body part but it's an inherent part of
you anyway you might think that body
odor is too complicated a thing to use
for identification and you'd be right
about that
there are numerous factors that affect
your smell from the stuff you eat to the
soap you wash with but there's a primary
scent that's unique for you and doesn't
change with environment it's hard to
separate it from the rest of the smells
though and you'll have to sniff really
hard to discern it on another person
that's why it's not yet used to identify
people although there have been attempts
already number 10 voice no one will be
surprised by voice recognition
technology today but it's still worth
mentioning since your voice is yours
alone
part of what it's about is already
within you from birth like pitch and
volume but other traits are learned the
language you speak its dialect even the
family you come from all contribute to
your unique voice pattern I'm not one
for conspiracy theories but remember
whenever you speak out loud they might
be listening to you whoever they are
number eleven gate yep the way you walk
can also give you a way to special
agents I guess because no one else will
be able to decipher your gate without
training however gate recognition has
been among the main ways to identify a
person for nearly a decade now and with
emergence of advanced smartphone
technology it's become much easier to do
so you see there's a device called
accelerometer in almost every smartphone
today which basically counts your pace
and tracks your movement having this
information a person can be recognized
even without him or her knowing about it
so if you go for a walk carrying a
smartphone in your pocket you can
already be filed in catalog have a good
day
number twelve palms
it seems your hands are after all the
ultimate traitors they give you away not
once but twice
ever heard of palmistry it's a kind of
pseudoscience of reading your future in
your palms and well it's still a big
question whether your destiny is indeed
written in the lines of your hands one
thing is certain the patterns on your
palms are unique for you
the trouble with identifying a person by
the palms is quite obvious though we
much more often touch things with our
fingers not with full hands so it's
easier to take fingerprints rather than
hand prints but still it's possible and
it's practiced a lot number 13 DNA well
talking about unique features of our
body I can't go past the stuff that
makes us basically what we are humans
and personalities DNA or
deoxyribonucleic acid say that three
times is a molecule with a very
characteristic look that you've might
have seen in both the books on biology
and movies it has two chains going
around each other and it contains all
information there is about you how you
grow develop function reproduce in short
everything scientists have been
searching for the keys to the DNA for
quite some time now
and haven't yet uncovered all its
secrets still this molecule can be found
in almost any kind of tissue or fluid of
your body that's white one strand of
your hair a drop of saliva or maybe a
cut off of your nail is enough to
identify you
DNA testing helps police officers all
around the world to find criminals very
effectively and without error so did I
miss anything
are there any other ways you can be
identified as a unique person that you
are let me know down in the comments hey
if you learn something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend but hey don't go back on
the witness protection program just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out just click on this left or
right video and enjoy I won't tell
anyone stay on the bright side of life
[Music]